[Music]
what
the perfect launch
and a controlled drop this is as good a
descent
as it's possible to make
[Music]
its parents are there to meet it
a little dazed perhaps but all in one
piece
one gosling at least hasn't made it
[Music]
and this chick appears to be in a bad
way
last it responds to its mother's cause
[Music]
the resilience of a barnacle goose chick
is extraordinary
but there are still chicks unaccounted
for somewhere
amongst the rubble
the parents can't risk searching because
they need to lead their two survivors
away quickly
before predators arrive
a third one has made it
but it needs to catch up
[Music]
reunited
three out of five chicks have made it
without such a dramatic start in life
it's unlikely any of them would have
even got this far
[Music]
these are dangerous places to be at the
bottom of the food chain
unable to run notre nicus relies on
brute strength
[Applause]
tyrannosaurs are predators that will eat
anything
even one of their own whether they've
killed it or
not
and a discovery found in montana of a
number of meat-eating dinosaurs
appeared to show that being such an
unfussy eater
could have dramatic consequences it
seems scavenging can hold hidden dangers
this tyrannosaur wasn't killed by
nothrinicus
there's a more deadly killer at work
[Music]
here
wow
all the predators bones were found
alongside the edge of an ancient
stagnant lake
and all of them died at the same time
similar mass killings have been found
today among birds
and the killer a fast-acting naturally
occurring
deadly disease botulism
botulism is caused by bacteria that can
thrive in rotting carcasses
we think that the dinosaurs too might
have been victims of this lethal
and invisible killer
once a carcass is poisoned it is quickly
passed on to any animal that eats it
with lethal results
but plant eaters like notre nicus are
usually safe from such deadly killers
by completely changing its diet
noceronicus
shows the extraordinary adaptability of
the group
known as the theropod dinosaurs
[Music]
the time when both egg and the brooding
parent are permanently at risk
[Music]
uh
smaller oviraptors are no more than a
nuisance
larger predators are a different story
unwilling to leave the nest the adult
protects its offspring
first by hiding
and if that fails it goes on the
offensive
[Music]
oh
hey
[Music]
protecting the nest means giganta
raptors young are more likely to survive
it now seems clear that the instinct to
nurture and care for a nest of eggs
had its origins with the dinosaurs
it's a behavior that was so successful
it's still
widespread today with birds
but the fossils show something else
these animals
all died sitting on their nests
it seems that the threats don't always
come from predators
sometimes the real danger comes from the
most unlikely places
[Music]
these dinosaurs were all buried alive
leopards are the most versatile of all
the big cats
adept at finding cover in the most
unpromising places
the steep walls of the gully are now her
cover
for an ambush
the male puku is close enough but he's
too big to tackle
[Music]
she needs to slip past him without being
seen
if he spots her he'll blow her cover
[Music]
slowly does it
to succeed here she needs to find prey
grazing
close to the edge or better still
in the gully itself
[Music]
so
frustration
success would have staved off hunger for
a week
but while there's prey around there's
hope
peeking over the top is a risk but it's
the quickest way to find a new target
[Music]
so
ah
a burst of speed of 65 kilometers an
hour
and it's all over in less than six
seconds
except it isn't
dazed and disorientated the impala makes
a miraculous escape
you've got park vehicles coming through
you've got
trucks loaded up with charcoal and
that's why jaminuka is just
so tense about crossing the road well if
it was just him
fine so he's just waiting
nervously for a quiet time to cross with
his old family
i feel for him
after 20 minutes we take matters into
our own hands
and lambert stops the traffic
look at this oh my gosh
no there you go that's confidence for
you
with chimanuka in charge the orphan
murali
is confident enough to venture out whoa
oh fantastic
oh my gosh look at this the whole family
muhira and his mother are almost the
last ones to break cover
and scamper over absolute confidence
luke
with all the youngsters across safely
chimanuka
can stop being the lollipop man
the boss showing
us that despite there's a road running
through
this is still his jungle
i love it
it's a great relief to see the whole
family across the road in safety
this area is more densely forested than
the sections we've been in before
is crisscrossed with gorilla trails
so there are clearly other families
around
and muguruka's arrival just adds to the
numbers
here he comes oh my word
right down onto the road
amazing he didn't even i thought maybe
stop being a bit reluctant but
because he came meters from me
to see him out in the open like this you
see how big he is
amazing